DOCS-7933 made edits (#262)
mulesoft/docs-api-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/spike-control-reference.adoc

>s| Policy Name | Spike Control
>s|Summary      | Smooths API traffic
>s|Category |
>s| First Mule version available | 4.1.0
.1+>.^s| Returned Status Codes
|
|===

> //Nahuel--any ret codes to doc here?

Reviewer: HTTP status code 429 - Too many requests. Request is rejected after specified number of reattempts.

Author: Done! Thanks!

>s| Policy Name | Spike Control
>s|Summary      | Smooths API traffic
>s|Category | Quality of Service
>s| First Mule version available | 4.1.0
.1+>.^s| Returned Status Codes

[%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a"]
!===
|429 - Too many requests! Request is rejected after specified number of reattempts.
|
|===

> The Spike Control policy regulates your API request traffic by limiting the number of messages processed by an API. The policy ensures that the number of messages processed do not exceed the limit that you configure within any given time. If the number is exceeded, the request is queued for retry based on your configuration.

Reviewer 2: "the number of...does not..."
```suggestion
The Spike Control policy regulates your API request traffic by limiting the number of messages processed by an API. The policy ensures that the number of messages processed within a specified time does not exceed the limit that you configure. If the number is exceeded, the request is queued for retry based on your configuration.
```
What does "based on your configuration" modify here: whether the request is requeued or how it is retried?

Reviewer 2: I was not able to understand the description of this policy, specifically how the following terms/concepts interact or overlap:
messages
requests
processed information
sliding window algorithm
the window
the window time span
request quota
I left my original edits here, for you to look at, but I am sure they are not quite right. Consider having a peer evaluate the clarity of the definitions and processing flow you document here.

Author: Done! Thanks!

> The Spike Control policy uses a sliding window algorithm to focus exclusively on reducing spikes in traffic and protecting the Mule Runtime Engine (Mule) instance. The window adjusts as time progresses, retaining only the processed information that fits within the window time span. 

Reviewer 2: Is this rewording technically correct? See https://levelup.gitconnected.com/an-introduction-to-sliding-window-algorithms-5533c4fe1cc7
```suggestion
The Spike Control policy uses the  _sliding window technique_ to display only that portion of information that matches the requirements that you set for reducing spikes in traffic and protecting the Mule runtime engine (Mule) instance. The window self-adjusts its display size to accommodate results over time. 
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> == How This Policy Works

Reviewer 2: This is an odd place for this title; doesn't the text directly above it also explain how the policy works, and introduce the sliding window technique (or algorithm)?

Author: Done! Thanks!

> If the current window does not have a request quota, without closing the connection to the client, the Spike Control policy allows requests to be queued for processing later. For your policy to queue the requests, you must configure the policy parameters, as shown in the following example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If not enough processing has occurred for the window to display results that meet your specified requirements, the Spike Control policy does not close the connection to the client; rather, it waits for queued results to display over time, based on how you configure the policy parameters:
```
OK. I know I should probably just delete my attempted rewordings, but I still find the original wordings unclear. I wonder if you can leverage an explanation from one of the results you get if you perform an internet search for "sliding window algorithm"?
OR
Maybe you can just say that the policy uses this algorithm and leave it at that, without explaining the algorithm?

Author: Done! Thanks!

> * Window size: 1 second

Reviewer 2: format the parameters as syntax: ` `
```suggestion
* `Window size`: 1 second
```
?
If so, repeat for all four list items

Author: Done! Thanks!

* # requests per window: 2
* Reprocessing delay: 499 milliseconds
* # retries: 1

> == Requests Timelines

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Request Timelines
```
BETTER
```suggestion
== Illustration of Accepted, Rejected, and Queued Request Timelines
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

The following diagram illustrates the lifespan of each request accepted by the algorithm:

image::spike-control.png[Accepted,Rejected, Queued Requests Timeline]

. The first two requests are accepted and the available quota is now 0. 
+

> The quota increases to 1 after a second (window size) has passed from request #1.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The quota increases to 1 after one second (the `window size` value) passes from request #1.
```
But is it really 1 second from "request #1" if "the first two requests are accepted and the quota is 0"?

Author: Done! Thanks!

. Request #3 arrives. 
+

> Because no quota is available, the request is queued for 499 milliseconds.

Reviewer 2: How can we say no quota is available when we just said that the quota increased to 1?
Clearly, I am not understanding this.
Please read this as you would if you were a new audience, and verify that this makes sense.
If it helps, ask a peer to review it.

Reviewer 2: Proofed only from this point on.

Author: Ok Thanks!

. Request #4 arrives. 
+

> Because no quota is still available, the request is queued for 499 milliseconds.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because there still is no quota available, the request is queued for 499 milliseconds.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

. Shortly before request #3 is retried, request #1 ages a second and its quota is released, because it falls out of the window.
. Quota is now 1, and request #3 is reprocessed successfully. 
+
Quota returns to 0 until request #2 ages 1 second.
. Request #4 delay concludes and it must be reprocessed.
Request #4 is rejected. Requests #2 and #3 have not aged enough because there are no more delays.
. Request #5 arrives.
+
Because request #2 has already aged more than a second, the request is accepted.

> Based on the example, the request delay regulates the spikes in traffic. Consequently, in high contention scenarios the backend continues to function properly (it serves no more than X requests in the last Y milliseconds). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This example illustrates request delays and how queuing regulates spikes in traffic. In high-contention scenarios, the backend continues to function properly (it serves no more than X requests in the last Y milliseconds). 
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> Users querying the API might still see their requests being served, though with higher latency. The exact configuration for the policy depends exclusively on your API and its throughput.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Users querying the API might still see their requests being served, but with higher latency. The exact configuration for the policy depends exclusively on your API and its throughput.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

== Configuring Policy Parameters

> When you apply the policy to your API from the UI, the following parameters are displayed:

Reviewer 2: How does one apply a policy from the UI?
These parameters are displayed in the UI?
Do you mean these parameters, which are displayed in the UI, are applied to the policy?

Author: Yes!

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a"]
|===
| Element | Description | Required

> | Number of Reqs | The number of requests that are allowed in the number of specified milliseconds. | Yes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Number of Reqs | The number of requests allowed in the specified number of milliseconds | Yes
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> |Time Period | The time period, in milliseconds, within which a request must be processed. | Yes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Time Period | The number of milliseconds within which a request must be processed | Yes
```
These descriptions are not sentences.

Author: Done! Thanks!

| Delay Time in Milliseconds | The amount of time for which each request is retained before retrying (in milliseconds) in case there is no quota remaining. | Yes

> | Delay Attempts | The number of times the request is retried before it is rejected. | Yes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Delay Attempts | The number of times a request is retried before it is rejected | Yes
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | Queuing Limit | The number of requests that can be queued at the any given time. Queuing a request requires holding on to a thread and an HTTP connection. The queuing limit mechanism protects the API, as it opens up a valve to ensure the API does not go down in case of an attack. | No

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Queuing Limit | The number of requests that can be queued | No
```
The removed text belongs in the narrative and not in the table of elements and descriptions.
It is conceptual information, not reference information.

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | Expose headers | Enables the policy to return information about the algorithm behavior in the X-RateLimit headers (disabled by default). You must enable this feature only if the API is for internal use. | No

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Expose headers | Enabled only for internal APIs, allows the policy to return information about the algorithm behavior in the X-RateLimit headers | No
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> | Method & Resource conditions | The option to add configurations to only a select few or all methods and resources of the API. | Yes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Method & Resource conditions | The option to add configurations to only a select few or all methods and resources of the API | Yes
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

>s| Policy Name | Spike Control
>s|Summary      | Smooths API traffic
>s|Category | Quality of Service
>s| First Mule version available | 4.1.0
.1+>.^s| Returned Status Codes

[%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a"]
!===
|429 - Too many requests! Request is rejected after specified number of reattempts.
|
|===

> The Spike Control policy regulates your API request traffic by limiting the number of messages processed by an API. The policy ensures that the number of messages processed within a specified time does not exceed the limit that you configure. If the number is exceeded, the request is queued for retry based on you have configured the policy.

Reviewer 3: The last line says 'based on you have configured...', shouldn't it be 'based on the configuration of the policy'?

Author: Unless the user is not configuring it, I would not change it to that sentence. It makes it passive.

// The Spike Control policy uses a Sliding Window Algorithm to focus exclusively on reducing spikes in traffic and protecting the Mule Runtime Engine (Mule) instance. The window in the algorithm adjusts as time progresses, retaining only the processed information that fits within the window time span. 

== How This Policy Works

The Spike Control policy uses the  _Sliding Window Algorithm_ to display only that portion of information that matches the requirements that you configure in the policy, for reducing spikes in traffic and protecting the Mule runtime engine (Mule) instance. The window self-adjusts its display size to accommodate results over time. 

If the current window has no remaining request quota, without closing the connection to the client, the Spike Control policy allows requests to be queued for processing later. For your policy to queue the requests, you must configure the policy parameters, as shown in the following example:

* `Time Period`: 1 second
* `Number of Reqs`: 2
* `Delay Time in Milliseconds`: 499 milliseconds
* `Delay Attempts`: 1

> Queuing a request requires retaining a thread and an HTTP connection. The queuing limit mechanism protects the API to ensure the API does not fail in case of an attack.

Reviewer 3: This refers to the 'Queuing Limit' that is not explained in the example before.

This property protects the server from running out of resources, not only making the API not fail.

Author: Done! Thanks!

== Request Timelines

The following diagram illustrates the lifespan of each request accepted by the algorithm:

image::spike-control.png[Accepted,Rejected, Queued Requests Timeline]

. The first two requests are accepted and the available quota is now 0. 
+
The quota increases to 1 after one second (the `window size` value) passes from request #1.

> // But is it really 1 second from "request #1" if "the first two requests are accepted and the quota is 0"? -- Nahuel?

Reviewer 3: Yes, the algorithm is created on the first request, so you could say that the beginning of time was when the first request arrived, and the window was created then.

Author: Ok thanks!

. Request #3 arrives. 
+
Because no quota is available, the request is queued for 499 milliseconds.

> //How can we say no quota is available when we just said that the quota increased to 1?--Nahuel

Reviewer 3: because request 3 consume the quota that was available after a second.

Author: Done! Thanks!

> Clearly, I am not understanding this.

Reviewer 3: is the same implementation as a leaky bucket algorithm. Each accepted request will 'own' 1 of quota for a second

Author: Done! Thanks!
